--- 
#indicate Frontmatter
layout: post
title: Iris Lab Results
---

# On average, which species of iris has the longest petals?

According to my precise caculations and extensive code, I have reached the conclusion that the species of iris with the longest petal is... **The Iris Virginica!!**

  
# On average, which species of iris has the widest sepals?
Another in depth program that I designed determines which iris plant has the widest sepal. After reviewing what my code printed, it appears that my hypothesis was correct, the species of iris with the widest sepal is... **The Iris Setosa!!**

  
# Describe your process in finding these answers
* I would like to say thank you to nonother than Mr. Lee for assisting me in this top-class botanist program. I did not recieve assistance from classmates or anyone else in the computer science community for this specific project. 
* Whenever I am writing extensive code, my methods for going about the assignment are fairly similar regardless of the task. I always begin with pseudocode for a few reasons. First, it allows me to organize my code and learn what to group together. Second, it helps me think of ways for how I could code specific things since usually thinking in english is easier than thinking in python. Third, starting with pseudocode allows me to visualize what I want my final program to look like. From here, everything was just a step up from the "Reading Files" homework, and things went pretty smoothly.
* For me, the concepts that I had the most trouble with were in the "Reading Files Homework". Thus, the Iris Lab was not too difficult. The most difficult part was working towards understanding how to compare the averages of lists.
* During the process of programming the Iris Lab, what I found not to work was using mutiple different "Get Average" methods. Rather, I resorted to using one by creating variables within the method than were general, and could be subsututed with a list of numbers. This method would then be called on later in the program.
* In the future, I would work toward using dictionaries to organize and group my lists. Rather than compareing six different lists to each other, I would compare the keys within dictionaries to each other.
* During this lab, what I imporoved on/learned was how to reference and stream numbers from a data set.


#### Written, Edited, Created, Thought Of, and Programmed by: 
Lucca Correia (HM '22)   
October 8, 2020



